BLINDING RADIANCE
4th level Evocation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Self
Components: V. S, M (a strip of magnesium)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Class: Artificer, Cleric. Paladin, Sorcerer, Warlock

Bright light erupts from your form, moving with you and dazzling those around you. You emit bright light in a 50-foot radius, and dim light for an additional 50 feet. Each creature that moves within 10 feet of you for the first time on its turn or that starts its turn within 10 feet of you, must make a Constitution saving throw. On a failure, the creature takes 3d10 radiant damage and is blinded until the start of its next turn. On a success, the creature takes half as much damage and is not blinded

At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 5th level or higher, the damage increases by1d10 for each slot level above 4th



BLOOD FRENZY
2nd-level biomancy* ( can be replaced with enchantment
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S, M (a drop of blood, less than 24 hours old)
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
Class: Artificer, Druid, Sorcerer, Warlock

You touch a willing creature, sharpening its focus with the instincts of a killer. The creature has advantage to hit creatures that are bloodied (have fewer than half their maximum hit points). When there is a bloodied, hostile creature within 30 feet of the target of this spell, the target creature has disadvantage to attack creature’s that aren’t bloodied.

At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using- a slot of 3rd level or higher, you can affect one additional creature for each slot level above 2nd.



PINS AND NEEDLES
Biomancy cantrip
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
Class: Druid, Warlock, Sorcerer, Wizard

You momentarily shut down a small part of the nervous system of a creature you can see, before overstimulating it and causing crippling pain. The creature must succeed on a Constitution saving throw or take 1d8 psychic damage. If the target fails its saving throw by 5 or more, it has disadvantage on the next attack roll it makes within the next minute as it temporarily loses function of a limb.
The spell's damage increases by 1d8 when you reach 5th level (2d8), 11th level (3d8), and 17th level (4d8).



RIPTIDE
2nd-level transmutation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 300 feet
Components: V. S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Class: Druid, Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard

Choose one creature you can see within range that is at least waist-deep in water, and choose a direction. Turbulent ribbons of underwater currents wrap around the creature. The target must succeed on a Strength saving throw at the start of each of its turns for the duration of the spell. On a failure, its swim speed is reduced to o until the start of its next turn and it is dragged 3o feet in the direction you chose, On a success, the creature can move as normal until the start of its next turn.

As a bonus action on your turn, you can change the direction of the underwater currents. The spell ends early if the creature is ever out of the spell’s range, or is no longer submerged in water.



SWITCHEROO
3rd-level transmutation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 90 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
Class: Bard, Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard

You attempt to switch places with a Large or smaller target within range that you can see. The target must succeed on a Charisma saving throw or instantly teleport to your space whilst you teleport to the one it previously occupied.

A creature automatically succeeds on this saving throw if there is not enough space to accommodate either of the creatures. A willing creature may choose to fail the saving throw.

At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 4th level or higher, the range of this spell increases by 30 feet for each slot level above 3rd. When cast at 6th or 9th level, you may target Huge and Gargantuan creatures, respectively.



TENTACLE LASH
4th-level biomancy (can be replaced with transmutation)
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (a miniature plunger)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Class: Druid, Ranger, Warlock, Wizard

Your arm elongates, into a long, wet, suckered tentacle. As part of the spellcasting action and as an action on each of your turns you can perform a melee spell attack against a creature within 30 feet. On a hit you deal 5d8 bludgeoning damage and the target must make a Strength saving throw if it is Huge or smaller. On a failure, you may choose one of the following effects:
 - The target is knocked prone.
 - You disarm the target, you take one item or weapon the target is carrying or wielding (and that is not fastened, e.g. armour) and return it to your person.

 The tentacle also serves as a useful appendage that can be used like a grappling hook or rope at the DM's discretion.

 At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 5th level or higher, the damage increases by 1d8 for each slot level above 4th.